Microsoft Azure Fundamentals 12/21/2023
  

Describe cloud concepts
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/paths/microsoft-azure-fundamentals-describe-cloud-concepts/

What is Cloud computing
  Is the delivery of computing services over the Internet.
  Not constrained by physical infrastructure.
  Use the cloud to rapidly expand the IT footprint.
  Basic services 
    Compute power
      How much processing can do
      Add and removed as needed, only paying for resources used
    Storage
      How much you can store
      Request more as needed. Backups handler by provider.
  
Shared responsibility model
  Responsibilities shared between cloud provider and the consumer
  Cloud Provider responsibilities
    Physical datacenter security, power, cooling, network connectivity, physical hosts
  Consumer responsibilities
    Data stored, devices allowed to connect, access security
  Responsibility tied to cloud service type
    IaaS
      Most responsibility on consumer
    PaaS
      Middle ground, evenly distributed
    SaaS
      most responsibility on cloud provider

Cloud Models
  Private cloud 
    Used by a single entity
    provides greatest control but greatest cost
    hosted on premises or a dedicated datacenter offsite
  Public cloud
    Third party cloud provider
    Anyone can purchase cloud services
  Hybrid cloud
    Used both public and private
    Provide extra layer of security choosing which services to keep private or public
  Multi-cloud
    Using multiple cloud providers
  Azure Arc
    Helps manage cloud environment or any model
  Azure VMWare Solution
    Lets run VMWare worklads in Azure with integration and scalability
    
Consumption-based model
  Falls under operational expenditure (OpEx) because paying for IT resources used.
    No upfront costs
    No need to manage costly infrastructure
    Ability to pay for more resources as needed
    Ability to stop paying for resources no longer needed
  You rent resource and are billed only for what you use.
  
Benefits of using cloud services
  High availability
    Resources are avilable when needed.
    Ensuring maximum availability, regardless of disruptions or events that may occur.
    Service availability guarantees part of sevice-level agreements (SLAs)
      Formal service agreement between service provider and customer
    Azure SLA
      99%:    down 1.68 hrs/week or 432 min/month
      99.99%  down 10 min/week or 43.2 min/month
  Scalability
    Ability to adjust resources to meet demand
    Only pay for usage, not overpaying for services
    Vertical scaling
      Increasing or decreasing capabilities of resource: CPUs, RAM     
    Horizontal scaling
      Adding or substracting the number of resources
      
Benefits of reliability and predictability in the cloud
  Reliability
    Ability of a system to recover from failures and continue to function.
    Decentrilized design enables having resources around the world (regions)
    Applications automatically shift to a diferent region to keep running
  Predictability
    Cost and preformance is predictable to move foward with confidence.
    Performance
      Predicting the resources needed to deliver a positive experience.
      Autoscaling, load balancing and high availability
    Cost
      Data analytics to find patterns that help better plan resource deployments
      Can predict future costs and adjust as needed.
      Tools help estimate potential cloud costs
        Total Cost of Ownership (TCO)
        Pricing Calculator
        
Benefits of security and governance in the cloud
  Set templates ensure all deployed resources meet coorporate standards and regulatory requirements.
  Ability to update resources to new standards as they change.
  Cloud-based auditing help flag resource out of compliance and provide mitigation strategies
  Patches and updates automatically applied for governance and security.
  Cloud provider well suited to handle DDoS attacks
  
Benefits of manageability in the cloud
  Management of the cloud
    Automatically scale resource deployment based on need
    Deploy base on preconfigured template, removing manual configuration
    Monitor health of resources and automatically replace failing resources
    Receive automatic alerts on configured metrics
  Management in the cloud
    Through a web portal
    Using a CLI
    Using APIs
    Using PowerShell
    
Describe Cloud Service Types
  Infrastructure as a Service
    Provides maximum amount of control of cloud resources
    Renting the hardware in a cloud datacenter.
    Provider only responsible for maintaining the hardware, network and physical security.
    Scenarios
      Lift-and-shift migration
        Having on cloud resources similar to on-prem datacenter and moving things from on-prem to cloud
      Testing and development
        Environments that need to rapidly replicate
  Platform as a Service
    Middle ground service
    Provider also responsible for OS, middleware, databases, development tools and BI services
    Provide a complete development environment without maintaining it.
    Scenarios
      Development framework
      Analytics or BI tools
  Software as a Service
    Renting using fully developed applications
    Least flexible but easiest to get up and running.
    Least amount of technical knowledge needed.
    Scenarios
      Email and mesaging
      Business productivity
      Finance and expense tracking